Blogpost: Writing a Kubernetes Operator/Controller (#43)
metalbear-co/metalbear.co: content/en/blog/kubenetes-operator/index.md

* `/apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha/namespaces/:namespace/llamas/:name` a single llama with the specified name

## Developing operators with mirrord

Building and pushing the Docker image for every little change we want to test is a bit tedious, which gives us a perfect opportunity to plug mirrord. mirrord lets you plug your local process into the cluster, so you could test your locally running operator within the actual Kubernetes cluster. 

mirrord comes as a VS Code or IntelliJ extension, or as a CLI tool. We’ll use the CLI tool in this example.

To run our operator using mirrord, we can use this command:

```bash
cargo build && mirrord exec -t deploy/farm-operator –steal ./target/debug/farm-operator
```

Our operator is now running locally, but stealing requests that are being sent to the operator deployment in the cluster! 

{{<figure src="kubectl-get-llamas.png" alt="Return value from kubectl get llamas." height="100%" width="100%">}}
{{<figure src="kubectl-describe-llamas.png" alt="Return value from kubectl describe llamas." height="100%" width="100%">}}

> ## Using benefits of Operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Existing Resources
```

> Implementing APIService lets us do is to provide access to existing resources but modify or enrich them before returning them to the user. All this without some complex synchronisation because you can rely on the Kubernetes as your source of truth and act accordingly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One thing an APIService lets us do is provide access to existing resources, but modify or enrich them before returning them to the user. In this case, Kubernetes manages persistence for these resources, and all our operator has to do is retrieve them using the Kubernetes API. 
```

However, any language that can make HTTP requests can be used, since Kubernetes uses OpenAPI (and even has bindings for most mainstream languages).

Notable frameworks and libraries for working with Kubernetes:

**API:**
- [client-go](https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go) (Golang)
- [kube-rs](https://github.com/kube-rs/kube) (Rust)
- [kubernetes-client](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python) (Python)

**Frameworks:**
- [Operator Framework](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/) (Golang)
- [Kopf](https://kopf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) (Python)

For the example in this post, we will use Rust + kube-rs. Here are a few reasons why we chose Rust:

1. Low footprint and great performance.
2. Safety, especially when doing concurrent operations.
3. kube-rs is great!
4. It’s the main language used by MetalBear’s team.

## This is where the tutorial starts

In the sections that follow, we’ll be creating an APIService. We’ll use Rust, but implementations in other languages can be extrapolated from it fairly easily. 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/metalbear-co/farm-operator.git
cd farm-operator
```

> *A small note on the example structure it is broken into 3 steps each in its respective dir, each step is built upon the previous step with prebuilt images[\*](https://github.com/metalbear-co/farm-operator/pkgs/container/farm-operator).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note that the example repository is divided into three steps, each in its respective directory, and each with its prebuilt image.[\*](https://github.com/metalbear-co/farm-operator/pkgs/container/farm-operator).*
```

```

{{<figure src="apiservice-result.png" alt="Return value from kubectl get apiservice. Cropped to only display relevant result." height="100%" width="100%">}}

Now let's dive into what is happening here. 

```yaml
# app.yaml
...
---
apiVersion: apiregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: APIService
metadata:
  name: v1alpha.farm.example.com
spec:
  group: farm.example.com
  groupPriorityMinimum: 1000
  insecureSkipTLSVerify: true
  service:
    name: farm-operator
    namespace: default
    port: 3000
  version: v1alpha
  versionPriority: 15
```

Our `app.yaml` defines three resources: an `APIService` which points to a `Service` resource, which in turn points to a `Deployment`. Because we want to create our Llama resources under the `apiVersion: farm.example.com/v1alpha`, we defined our `APIService` with:

```yaml
spec:
  …
  group: farm.example.com
  …
  version: v1alpha
```

This means that when we create the APIService, Kubernetes will perform a lookup request to our operator at `/apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha` and expect it to return an APIResourceList. 

This way it knows which resource requests to route to the operator. The response from the farm-operator will look like this. 

> {{<figure src="apiservicelist-return-value.png" alt="Json result from /apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha" height="100%" width="100%">}}

Reviewer: Can't this be a code snippet?

Author: It certainly can now that I think about it

**NOTE**: *groupVersion is very important because if misconfigured, it can make Kubernetes have unexpected behavior with its built-in resources and potentially cause crashes for the entire cluster.*

> 1. First, let’s talk about adding a new resource to be handled by the operator.

Reviewer: Add a title before this section, something like Coding our Operator

```rs
let app = Router::new()
  .route("/apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha", get(get_api_resources))
  .route(
      "/apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha/namespaces/:namespace/llamas",
      get(llama::list_llamas),
  )
  .route(
      "/apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha/namespaces/:namespace/llamas/:name",
      get(llama::get_llama),
  );
```

The routes added:

* `/apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha/namespaces/:namespace/llamas` should return a list of all llamas in the specified namespace
* `/apis/farm.example.com/v1alpha/namespaces/:namespace/llamas/:name` a single llama with the specified name

## Developing operators with mirrord

Building and pushing the Docker image for every little change we want to test is a bit tedious, which gives us a perfect opportunity to plug mirrord. mirrord lets you plug your local process into the cluster, so you could test your locally running operator within the actual Kubernetes cluster. 

mirrord comes as a VS Code or IntelliJ extension, or as a CLI tool. We’ll use the CLI tool in this example.

To run our operator using mirrord, we can use this command:

```bash
cargo build && mirrord exec -t deploy/farm-operator –steal ./target/debug/farm-operator
```

> Our operator is now running locally, but stealing requests that are being sent to the operator deployment in the cluster! 

Reviewer: Maybe add another screenshot of the local operator logging the request

Author: Currently there are no logs in the farm-operator, probably need to add a println or something
